WIP: proposal for steering composition mechanics (#214)
knative/community: STEERING-COMMITTEE.md

   disposition of those resources.

> 1. Manage the Knative brand and decide which things can be called "Knative" and

Reviewer: My hunch, though I am not a lawyer, is that we have created an unincorporated association with Google as the trustee of the Knative trademarks. That's generally an OK thing for the community, since we have these rules agreed to.

> 1. Manage the Knative brand and decide which things can be called "Knative" and

Author: You raise a valid question, I'm not sure I have the brain to answer it. I'll think it over, just want to explicitly ack it.

> 1. Manage the Knative brand and decide which things can be called "Knative" and

Reviewer 2: While we're in here, can we add "Logo" into this bullet point since they control that too?

   how that mark can be used in relation to other efforts or vendors.

> 1. Confirm/reject nominations to the Technical Oversight Committee.

Reviewer 3: Just to play devil's advocate a little here: why should the Steering Committee have the ability to reject a nomination to the TOC when the TOC is elected on essentially the same basis, from just as representative a pool, as the Steering committee? (in fact, almost by definition a TOC election being considered by the Steering Committee would be _more_ representative, in that it would obviously be more recent if it were being confirmed or rejected by the existing body).

Reviewer 4: I think better wording here now would be "Serve as TOC election officers" (linking to election mechanics), since I believe the TOC election mechanics say something similar.  

Happy to discuss that detail in more depth (I had the same thought), but I don't want to detract from the substance of the PR.  😇

Reviewer 3: Yep, if this becomes just an election officer responsibility rather than this confirm/reject wording that seems fine. 

I do think though fwiw that this actually cuts quite directly at a major hesitation I have about this charter (which generally I support) in a more general sense. How does having both TOC and Steering elected change the relationship between those bodies? For example this document defines the TOC as being a delegation of the Steering committee, presumably implying steering can override TOC decisions, or abolish the TOC.. is that still reasonable when both are elected bodies? Why? In what sense does, should or can Steering posses greater legitimacy?

Reviewer 4: re: combining

I think the groups ultimately cater to different candidate-audiences (perhaps overlapping) because they generalize exercise different skills operating in different aspects of the project.

I could see combining them dissuading candidates from joining the body, or elections for a single body resulting in a bias towards one skillset and a deficit of the other.  Don't ask me to walk and chew gum, @julz! 😉 

---

re: hierarchy

I think some of this wording is prehistoric and should probably be revisited.  Ideally steering (as election officers) would be responsible for tweaking election mechanics, and it's a good question whether more extreme capabilities are still needed.

Personally, I would mind this clause less if Steering were also elected from the community 😇

Reviewer 3: To state the somewhat obvious, the problem with two committees _without_ hierarchy is that you have no obvious mechanism for how to resolve conflicts, and conflicts happen. The problem with two committees _with_ hierarchy when both are elected from essentially the same pool of candidates and electors it there's a very clear legitimacy problem when one overrules the other, particularly if the "junior" committee happens to've been more recently elected.

Reviewer 3: (for the record I 100% believe in your ability to both walk and chew gum @mattmoor, but I of course respect any decision you make not to ;))

Reviewer 5: > Yep, if this becomes just an election officer responsibility rather than this confirm/reject wording that seems fine.
> 
> I do think though fwiw that this actually cuts quite directly at a major hesitation I have about this charter (which generally I support) in a more general sense. How does having both TOC and Steering elected change the relationship between those bodies? For example this document defines the TOC as being a delegation of the Steering committee, presumably implying steering can override TOC decisions, or abolish the TOC.. is that still reasonable when both are elected bodies? Why? In what sense does, should or can Steering posses greater legitimacy?

Seems like the last bullet point in this charter is what's being discussed here? The way I read this:
```
1. Act as the final escalation point and decider for any disputes, issues,
   clarifications, or escalations within the project scope.	   clarifications, or escalations within the project scope.
```

Is that if TOC makes a decision, it gets escalated to SC they would have the authority to override that decision?

Reviewer 6: To agree with julz's point, above, there needs to be a clear ultimate authority. I would prefer that authority rest with the community part of the committees, rather than the technology part of the committees. In particular, the Steering Committee is the group which adjudicates Code of Conduct complaints, and I'd prefer that those decisions to override *any* technical considerations.

Author: Just a note: we decided to have a distinct discussion about the relationship of the SC/TOC, dev list thread here:

https://groups.google.com/g/knative-dev/c/AOm2exWqjJg

Author: I decided the language about approving/rejecting nominations doesn't make a lot of sense, I am going to strike it.

KSC meets every two weeks, or as-needed. Meetings are held online.

Given the private nature of some of these discussions (e.g. privacy, private
emails to the committee, code of conduct violations, escalations, disputes
between members, security reports, etc.) some meetings are held in private.

> Meeting notes are available to members of the [knative-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev).

Reviewer 7: Yep! Recording will be made available on the Knative YouTube channel!

> Meeting notes are available to members of the [knative-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev).

Author: I recognize that this isn't currently followed, consider following it part of the proposal.

> Meeting notes are available to members of the [knative-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev).

Author: Yes, public meetings will be recorded and the recordings made available, I'll add this language

> Meeting notes are available to members of the [knative-dev mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev).

Reviewer 8: Hi, everyone, I'm new in this group and after reading this topic. I feel free to contribute with SC, cause I believe in the Knative project and in it future. So, i agree with @evankanderson opinion. I think that TOC and SC are different in disposition terms. One hand, TOC as a technical aspects, and Other hand a SC as non-technical aspects. When I say non-techincal aspects, is like the SC need focus on activies:

- Meetups, polls, newsletters, etc. Possibly directly organizing these efforts, evolving into a framework if the effort gets too large.

- Tracking and managing relationships with large consumers of Knative, whether they be vendors or self-hosted installs.

- Collecting and organizing community feedback and helping determine which areas of functionality are most critical for the project to execute on. (TOC is concerned about executing well, but may not have the insight on where to improve.)

- Tracking community health and coordinating conference presences, etc.

- Managing resource acquisition for all the tools that the project uses -- slack, CI/CD execution environments, website hosting, etc.

Like, Evans said on his comment. 
Finally, I guess this a good way to Mantained SC and support Knative community.

And to Formed this SC, I think it must lookfeel a "Consortium" like W3C to Steering the next steps in the next years.

Questions and proposals for changes to governance are posted as
[issues in the docs repo](https://github.com/knative/docs/issues), and the KSC
invites your feedback there. See [Raising Issues](#raising-issue-to-the-steering-committee) for other
options.

## Committee members

Seats on the Steering Committee are held by an individual, not by their employer.

When the Knative project was created, it was assigned strong corporate
leadership through organizationally appointed steering committee members. As a
mature project with production adoption, the project has moved to a democratic

> process of selecting new SC members.  This process may change again in the

Author: ack

> future as Knative continues to grow.

Author: ack

KSC meets every two weeks, or as-needed. Meetings are held online.

Given the private nature of some of these discussions (e.g. privacy, private
emails to the committee, code of conduct violations, escalations, disputes

> between members, security reports, etc.) some meetings are held in private.

Reviewer 9: I would like to see a policy that states that by default all meetings will be publicly available, that exceptions would be only when meeting to discuss privacy/private matters. Is ok to have held meetings and split the time between public and private portion, the private portion will not be recorded.

Author: I don't disagree but I am going to refrain from incorporating that for now in order to keep the focus on the most important parts. Hope it's okay to revisit that later on.

Author: I'm going to resolve this for now; we can come back to it once the key parts are resolved.

Meeting notes are available to members of the [knative-dev mailing
list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/knative-dev). Public meetings will
be recorded and the recordings made available publicly.

> 

Reviewer 9: We have two mailing list knative-dev and knative-users, wondering if the steering community should have more visibility to the knative-users mailing list

Reviewer 6: I suspect that Paul means that the notes will be in the team drive, which would grant read access to knative-users as well.

Author: That's correct and what I had meant. I'll make it explicit.

Questions and proposals for changes to governance are posted as

> [issues in the docs repo](https://github.com/knative/docs/issues), and the KSC

Reviewer 2: Should this be "community" repo since this doc is in that repo, not "docs" ?

Author: Good point

invites your feedback there. See [Raising Issues](#raising-issue-to-the-steering-committee) for other
options.

## Committee members

> Seats on the Steering Committee are held by an individual, not by their employer.

Reviewer 9: This is shortest line on this PR and the strongest statement of open source values. 💯

> When the Knative project was created, it was assigned strong corporate

Reviewer 9: >When the Knative project was created, it was assigned strong corporate
leadership through organizationally appointed steering committee members.

I would leave out this sentence don't think it adds any "community" value this type of historical info.

Author: Fair, I think that's context that lives in this PR just fine.

> 

Reviewer 2: to be clear, it's: `> 50% of votes cast`, not of all members, right? And, abstain == no vote

Reviewer 10: It's actually 51% of all members, the way the SC charter is currently written. Paul's PR doesn't change that.

Reviewer 2: Yes but I think it should be changed, otherwise absent, or abstaining, members influence the vote

Reviewer 2: I'm ok with the "at least half of the members" in the next sentence.

Reviewer 2: ^^ was w.r.t. quorum, not voting. Just to be clear.

re: voting....
- to me it need to be > 50% because if there's a tie then I think the status-quo should prevail
- we need to be clear about whether abstains and "not voting" counts towards the tally, otherwise people who choose to not vote (by not showing up, or voting to 'abstain') are in essence voting "no". Which means1) means we're allowing people who choose to step back from the process (and their duties) to influence things, and 2) there's no way for someone to say "I have no opinion and I'll go with the will of the other voters". That's why "abstain" should be the same as "not voting" and neither should count in the tally.  ie. "> 50% of people who vote"

Reviewer 10: so, the way it is now (and is unchanged in this charter revision), a majority of SC needs to vote for any decision, and abstains are materially indisinguishable from "no" votes.  The advantage of the present system is mostly around preventing any one faction (or company, or whatever) from taking advantage of poor availability (say, during Kubecon) to pass changes without an actual majority.

I've been a part of organizations that allowed a minority to pass measures, but those organizations had very strict rules around what constituted a valid meeting in order to make that work -- rules I'll note that this charter lacks. That would be a lot of extra process for the SC.  What problem are you actually solving here?

Reviewer 2: - I want a way for someone to vote with "no opinion" - can't do that today
- I don't want people who choose to not participate to have influence over votes
- and yes I agree we probably need a bit more in here about quorum/valid meetings.  E.g. announce votes at least week in advance, allow people to vote off-line if they can't make the meeting, etc...  but in small groups like this it's usually not an issue when there's trust and good will.  However, yes we should add those things....

Create a charter assuming the worst, but hope for the best.

Reviewer 10: Can I suggest passing this "simple" version first, and then considering that kind of revision?  The advantage of always requiring a majority affirmative vote is that it considerably simplifies process; you can take a vote anywhere you want because you always need four "yeses".

Reviewer 2: that's fine, we can defer a deeper chat for later

> In case of extended absence, the organization of the absent member may appoint a

Author: I meant to remove this; will push an update.

> single delegate from the same company during the absence.

Reviewer 4: Should this be updated?

seats and one End-User seat. One Google, one IBM, and one VMWare seat will be
retained from the current Steering Committee.

In October or November 2021, the three remaining "bootstrap SC" seats will be replaced by
elected seats (two Contributing and one End-User).

## Changes to the charter

Changes to the KSC charter may be proposed via a PR on the charter itself.
Amendments are accepted with majority consent of the committee.

Proposals and amendments to the charter are available for at least a period of
one week for comments and questions before a vote will occur.

---

Portions of this document are adapted from the
[Istio Steering Committee](https://github.com/istio/community/blob/master/STEERING-COMMITTEE.md)
documentation, and other portions are copied from the [Kubernetes Steering Committee](https://github.com/kubernetes/steering/blob/master/elections.md), both of which are licensed under the Apache License 2.0.

Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the
[Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/),
and code samples are licensed under the

> [Apache 2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

Reviewer 4: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Add trailing newline:
```suggestion
[Apache 2.0 License](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

```

2. Open an issue on a knative repository and indicate that you would like
   attention from the steering committee.

## Composition

> The steering committee will have 7 seats.  Five of the seats will be

Reviewer: It'd be worth working out the use of tenses. "Will have" future tense or "has" present tense. I'd suggest present tense, it's always easier to read.

Author: Agree, and I'm changing it wherever it makes sense (the language about elections seems appropriate to use future tense in since it is describing the next election, which hasn't happened yet at any given time)

Contributing seats, open to any project contributor.  Two of the seats will be
End-User seats, open only to active end-user community members.  See Candidate

> Eligibility for definitions of these categories.

Author: ack, thanks!

Steering Committee members will serve for 2-year terms, staggered in order to
preserve continuity.  Every year either two or three contributor seats will be
elected, and one end user seat will be elected.

## Election Procedure

### Timeline

Steering Committee elections shall be held in October or November of each year.

> Six weeks or more before the election, the Steering Committee shall appoint

Reviewer: Continued from my note above: I'd recommend against "shall appoint", which is a future tense. I'd suggest "appoints".

If you keep future tenses, I'd use "will" over "shall". The latter is common in legalese, which can make things less approachable.

Author: Ack, incorporating now

Steering Committee members will take office on December 1 of each year.

### Election Officer(s)

Six weeks or more before the election, the Steering Committee will appoint
between one and three Election Officer(s) to administer the election.  Elections
Officers will be Knative community members in good standing who are eligible to
vote, are not running for Steering in that election, and can make a public
promise of impartiality.  They will be responsible for:

* Making all announcements associated with the election
* Preparing and distributing electronic ballots
* Judging exception requests
* Assisting candidates in preparing and sharing statements
* Tallying voting results according to the rules in this charter

### Eligibility to Vote

Anyone who has at least 50 contributions in the last 12 months is eligible to
vote in the Steering election. Contributions are defined as opening PRs,
reviewing and commenting on PRs, opening and commenting on issues, writing
design docs, commenting on design docs, helping people on slack, participating
in working groups, and other efforts that help advance Knative the project.

[This

> dashboard]((https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
dashboard](https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year)
```

Author: Ack

shows only GitHub based contributions and does not capture all the contributions
we value. We expect this metric not to capture everyone who should be eligible
to vote. If a community member has had significant contributions over the past
year but is not captured in the [stats.knative.dev
dashboard](https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year),
they will be able to submit an exception form to the Elections Officer(s) who
will then review and determine whether this member should be marked as an
exception.  All exceptions, and the reasons for them, will be recorded in a log
that will be available to Steering and the TOC.

> All eligible voters will be captured at

Reviewer: I'd suggest calling this an electoral roll.

knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/voters.md and the voters’ guide will
be captured at knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/README.md, similar to

> the kubernetes election process and identical to the TOC election process.

Reviewer: I suggest "... Kubernetes election TOC process and identical to the Knative TOC election process".

(I assume the reference here is to the Kubernetes TOC).

Author: it's the kube steering election process, I see that it might be ambiguous now

We are committed to an inclusive process and will adapt future eligibility
requirements based on community feedback.

> ### Candidate Eligibility

Reviewer 3: Im not sure if I missed it (sorry if I did :)), but I can't see here whether we've specified whether someone can be on both the TOC and the Steering committee concurrently? Can a TOC member run? If they can and they win are the expected to step down? etc

Reviewer 4: Good question!  I've wondered the same before and am mixed on this, but curious what prior art there is, since I could make a case for either. 😅

Reviewer 3: yah, I feel like it'd be pretty odd to have to think "hmm better not vote for Matt for TOC since then he can't be on Steering" ;). On the other hand, allowing people to be on both committees seems to make having two committees pretty weird (+ if Steering is supposed to be an escalation point for TOC, which it currently is in this doc, how does that even work when many members are the same?). 

I personally lean towards letting people who want to be on both be on both, but either way, I feel like we should be explicit about this, so very interested in opinions and precedents also!

Reviewer 6: I'm also assuming that a candidate could step down at any moment, or conditionally resign from one committee in order to serve on the other if elected.

I do think serving on both committees might be a bit much, but I'm not sure I'd want to explicitly prohibit it.

Author: I don't think it should be prohibited. In the event someone is qualified, wants to do both roles, and the community wants it, why not?

Author: I'm making it explicit that it's okay. Thanks for raising this @julz

> Community members must be eligible to vote in order to stand for election (this

Reviewer 11: Is it possible for an existing steering member to immediately run again for a seat? Or is there a cadence period of e.g. 1 year until they can be reelected? Couldn't find any information on this in the doc (but could have overlooked it, too)

Reviewer 4: If we opt for a cooldown period, I'd propose that we exempt bootstrap steering from the cooldown, since some will necessarily have to step down.  I'd be curious what other projects have done too.  My $0.02

Author: I added language explicitly saying there is no cooldown period. I would prefer to discuss term limits / cooldown as future changes to the charter if this proposal is adopted.

includes voters who qualify for an exception). Candidates may self-nominate or
be nominated by another eligible member. The approximate time commitment of a

> Steering member is around 5 hours per week.

Reviewer: I think this sentence could be left off. It's advice to potential candidates about the role, rather than a rule.

Reviewer 7: Definitely not a hard rule but we wanted to be clear about time commitment so folks 1. make sure they have the time bandwidth to dedicate to steering, and 2. other steering members can expect that sort of time commitment as well. This is to provide the guardrails so that responsibilities and tasks can be equally distributed between steering members.

Reviewer 12: agree, you can delete the last sentence.

To run for a Contributing seat, a candidate must additionally be at least a

> project Member as defined in Roles.md.

Reviewer 12: link to roles.md

Author: Ack, thanks

> To run for an End-User seat, a candidate must be employed by, or own, an

Reviewer: Does ownership include partial ownership via shares or partnership agreement?

Author: Took the 'own' language out because I felt it was clearer that way.

representation discussed below. This is the same process used for TOC elections.

### Limitations on Company Representation

No more than two seats may be held by employees of the same organization (or
consortium, in the case of companies owning each other).  Additionally, the two
End-User seats may not belong to employees of the same organization. If the
results of an election result in greater than two employees of the same
organization, the lowest vote getters from any particular employer will be
removed until representation on the committee is down to two.

If employers change because of job changes, acquisitions, or other events, in a
way that would yield more than 2 seats being held by employees of the same
organization, sufficient members of the committee must resign until only two
employees of the same employer are left. If it is impossible to find sufficient
members to resign, all employees of that organization will be removed and new
special elections held. In the event of a question of company membership (for
example evaluating independence of corporate subsidiaries) a majority of all
non-involved Steering Committee members will decide.

## Vacancies

> In the event of a resignation or other loss of an elected SC member, the

Reviewer 13: What is the process for someone on steering who changes companies and remains on steering? That move might violate the company limit.

What about if a company is acquired and the new union now violate the limit?

Author: See line 214: https://github.com/knative/community/pull/214/files#diff-885f133673bb843be731122e9098f958R221

Reviewer 4: I'd expect same as TOC, someone would step down and backfill logic would kick in, is it not covered below?

Reviewer 4: ah, it's above!
> If employers change because of job changes, acquisitions, or other events, in a way that would yield more than 2 seats being held by employees of the same organization, sufficient members of the committee must resign until only two employees of the same employer are left.

candidate with the next most votes from the previous election will be offered
the seat, provided that person otherwise qualifies to join the SC. This process
will continue until the seat is filled.

In case this fails to fill the seat, a special election for that position will
be held as soon as possible, unless the regular SC election is less than 7 weeks
away.  Eligible voters from the most recent election will vote in the special

> election (ie: eligibility will not be redetermined at the time of the special

Reviewer: I'd change the parenthetical to be inline: "Eligible voters from the most recent election will vote in the special election. Eligibility is not redetermined for the special election."

Author: ack

election). Any replacement SC member will serve out the remainder of the term
for the person they are replacing, regardless of the length of that remainder.

## Transition

In order to transition from the original, organization-appointed Steering
Committee structure, elections will be phased in over 14 months.

In October 2020, four positions will be elected, including three Contributing
seats and one End-User seat.  One Google, one Red Hat/IBM, and one VMWare seat

> will be retained from the current Steering Committee.

Reviewer 11: Maybe add a brief comment, that for the transition period 2020/21 that there will be 6 contributing seats and 1 End-User seat for this transition phase.

Reviewer 12: write VMWare/Pivotal if you write Red Hat/IBM

Reviewer 3: does the Pivotal brand name still exist? I'd think it'd be "VMWare/Tanzu" if anything now?

Reviewer 14: Pivotal no longer exists as a standalone company. Previous Pivotal employees and the people working on Tanzu are all employees of VMware, so I think it's correct to just say "VMware" seat. Although, we should correct the capitalization of VMware :)

> In October or November 2021, the three "old SC" seats will be replaced by

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In October or November 2021, the remaining three "bootstrap SC" seats will be replaced by
```

Author: Incorporated in next push

elected seats (two Contributing and one End-User).

## Changes to the charter

> Changes to the KSC charter may be proposed via a Pull Request on the charter

Author: ack

Eligibility for definitions of these categories.

Steering Committee members serve for 2-year terms, staggered in order to
preserve continuity.  Every year either two or three contributor seats are
elected, and one end user seat is elected.

## Election Procedure

### Timeline

Steering Committee elections are held annually. Six weeks or more before the
election, the Steering Committee will appoint Election Officer(s) (see below).
Four weeks or more before the election, the Election Officer(s) will issue a
call for nominations, publish the list of voters, and open the call for
exceptions.  One week before the election the call for nominations and
exceptions will be closed.  The election will be open for voting not less than
two weeks and not more than four.  The results of the election will be
announced within one week of closing the election.  New Steering Committee
members will take office on December 1 of each year.

### Election Officer(s)

Six weeks or more before the election, the Steering Committee will appoint
between one and three Election Officer(s) to administer the election.  Elections
Officers will be Knative community members in good standing who are eligible to

> vote, are not running for Steering in that election, and can make a public

Reviewer 15: It's not clear to me from this paragraph if standing Steering Committee members may also be Election Officers

Author: Good point, I will incorporate this explicitly

* Preparing and distributing electronic ballots
* Judging exception requests
* Assisting candidates in preparing and sharing statements
* Tallying voting results according to the rules in this charter

### Eligibility to Vote

Anyone who has at least 50 contributions in the last 12 months is eligible to
vote in the Steering election. Contributions are defined as opening PRs,
reviewing and commenting on PRs, opening and commenting on issues, writing
design docs, commenting on design docs, helping people on slack, participating
in working groups, and other efforts that help advance Knative the project.

[This
dashboard]((https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year)
shows only GitHub based contributions and does not capture all the contributions
we value. We expect this metric not to capture everyone who should be eligible
to vote. If a community member has had significant contributions over the past
year but is not captured in the [stats.knative.dev
dashboard](https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year),

> they will be able to submit an exception form to the Elections Officer(s) who

Reviewer 9: the individual or a WG lead. I think WG leads would notice that an individual that is contributing that deserves to be included for voting, so the WG could be the one submitting the form.

Author: My preference would be for people to explain their own exception requests, unless there's a strong group-level preference for proxy exception requests

> will then review and determine whether this member should be marked as an
> exception.  All exceptions, and the reasons for them, will be recorded in a log

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
will then review and determine whether this member should be eligible to vote.
All exceptions, and the reasons for them, will be recorded in a log
```

that will be available to Steering and the TOC.

The electoral roll of all eligible voters will be captured at
knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/voters.md and the voters’ guide will
be captured at knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/README.md, similar to

> the kubernetes election process and identical to the TOC election process.

Reviewer 9: >kubernetes election process

Can make this a link?

candidate with the next most votes from the previous election will be offered
the seat, provided that person otherwise qualifies to join the SC. This process
will continue until the seat is filled.

In case this fails to fill the seat, a special election for that position will
be held as soon as possible, unless the regular SC election is less than 7 weeks
away.  Eligible voters from the most recent election will vote in the special
election. Eligibility will not be redetermined at the time of the special
election. Any replacement SC member will serve out the remainder of the term
for the person they are replacing, regardless of the length of that remainder.

## Transition

In order to transition from the original, organization-appointed Steering
Committee structure (the "bootstrap" committee), elections will be phased in
over 14 months.

In October 2020, four positions will be elected, including three Contributing
seats and one End-User seat. One Google, one IBM, and one VMWare seat will be
retained from the current Steering Committee.

In October or November 2021, the three remaining "bootstrap SC" seats will be replaced by
elected seats (two Contributing and one End-User).

> ## Changes to the charter

Reviewer 16: ```suggestion
## Changes to the Charter
```

## Composition

The steering committee has 7 seats.  Five of the seats will be Contributing

> seats, open to any project contributor.  Two of the seats will be End-User

Reviewer: Mismatched tenses: "has" vs "will be".

Author: ack, thanks!

2. Open an issue on a knative repository and indicate that you would like
   attention from the steering committee.

## Composition

The steering committee will have 7 seats.  Five of the seats will be
Contributing seats, open to any project contributor.  Two of the seats will be
End-User seats, open only to active end-user community members.  See Candidate
Eligibility for definitions of these categories.

Steering Committee members will serve for 2-year terms, staggered in order to
preserve continuity.  Every year either two or three contributor seats will be
elected, and one end user seat will be elected.

## Election Procedure

### Timeline

> Steering Committee elections shall be held in October or November of each year.

Reviewer 6: Do we want to suggest that this is intentionally about 6 months off from the TOC to allow better knowledge transfer and continuity?

Author: The material on the TOC elections currently doesn't say what time of year it will be held, I wonder if we should just say "annually" ? WDYT?

Reviewer 4: I'd leave it and update TOC.  It'd be good to indicate when that happens for folks looking to understand how they might participate.

Six weeks or more before the election, the Steering Committee shall appoint
Election Officer(s) (see below).  Four weeks or more before the election, the
Election Officer(s) will issue a call for nominations, publish the list of
voters, and open the call for exceptions.  One week before the election the call
for nominations and exceptions will be closed.  The election will be open for
voting not less than two weeks and not more than four.  The results of the
election shall be announced within one week of closing the election.  New
Steering Committee members will take office on December 1 of each year.

### Election Officer(s)

Six weeks or more before the election, the Steering Committee will appoint
between one and three Election Officer(s) to administer the election.  Elections
Officers will be Knative community members in good standing who are eligible to
vote, are not running for Steering in that election, and can make a public
promise of impartiality.  They will be responsible for:

* Making all announcements associated with the election
* Preparing and distributing electronic ballots

> * Judging exception requests

Reviewer 6: Not sure if we want to send these to steering as a feedback loop, or keep it with the 1-3 election officers.

Author: I don't think exception requests will normally be difficult to judge, and I would trust election officers to do so personally. Do you think any text should change here?

Reviewer 6: The feedback loop was to make steering aware of the sorts of work that we weren't currently judging well, but I'm fine either way.

Reviewer 10: FWIW, Kubernetes does it with the decisions made by the EC, with a record kept of each decision.

* Assisting candidates in preparing and sharing statements
* Tallying voting results according to the rules in this charter

### Eligibility to Vote

Anyone who has at least 50 contributions in the last 12 months is eligible to
vote in the Steering election. Contributions are defined as opening PRs,
reviewing and commenting on PRs, opening and commenting on issues, writing
design docs, commenting on design docs, helping people on slack, participating

> in working groups, and other efforts that help advance Knative the project.

Reviewer 6: Not sure how we'd want to count other community effort around things like relaying customer feedback to the right WGs, organizing community events, etc.

Author: I feel like these are covered by the presence of the exception process, do you think they need to be explicitly called out?

year but is not captured in the [stats.knative.dev
dashboard](https://knative.teststats.cncf.io/d/9/developer-activity-counts-by-repository-group-table?orgId=1&var-period_name=Last%20year),
they will be able to submit an exception form to the Elections Officer(s) who
will then review and determine whether this member should be marked as an
exception.  All exceptions, and the reasons for them, will be recorded in a log
that will be available to Steering and the TOC.

All eligible voters will be captured at
knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/voters.md and the voters’ guide will
be captured at knative/community/steering-elections/$YEAR/README.md, similar to
the kubernetes election process and identical to the TOC election process.

We are committed to an inclusive process and will adapt future eligibility
requirements based on community feedback.

### Candidate Eligibility

Community members must be eligible to vote in order to stand for election (this
includes voters who qualify for an exception). Candidates may self-nominate or
be nominated by another eligible member. The approximate time commitment of a

> Steering member is around 5 hours per week.

Reviewer 6: Is this true for steering? It looks copy-pasted from TOC, so want to verify.

Reviewer 7: We approximated 5 hours, since steering specific tasks will be distributed across 7 members.

Reviewer 11: Assuming that TOC's and steering's tasks are not overlapping, the time commitment might be also an argument to not merge TOC and steering (as discussed above) since this would increase the time commitment to ~ 11 hours in average per member (assuming 7 seats for a combined board, (8 * 5 + 5 * 7) / 7 = 10.7)

Author: I removed the sentence in question :)

To run for a Contributing seat, a candidate must additionally be at least a
project Member as defined in Roles.md.

To run for an End-User seat, a candidate must be employed by, or own, an
organization that does not sell products or services derived from Knative.
Staff with in-house Knative deployments, as well as application developers who
create applications that run on Knative, are eligible (and encouraged to run)
for these seats.  Additionally, the candidate must participate in the

> knative-users mailing list and/or community-facing Knative Slack channels.

Reviewer 6: It's a little odd to have this in combination with the "must be able to vote" requirement.

I'm willing to give it a try, but it might make sense to specifically call out that candidates here should feel welcome to apply for an exception.

Reviewer 12: agree, this feels a bit hard to qualify for an end-user seat: you need to use, but not sell and contribute..

Author: Agree that it's a little odd. Thinking about how to phrase this.

### Voting Procedure

Elections will be held using a time-limited
[Condorcet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Condorcet_method) ranking on
[CIVS](http://civs.cs.cornell.edu/) using the Schulze method. The top
vote-getters will be elected to the open seats, with the exceptions for company
representation discussed below. This is the same process used for TOC elections.

### Limitations on Company Representation

No more than two seats may be held by employees of the same organization (or

> consortium, in the case of companies owning each other).  Additionally, the two

Reviewer 17: I suggest "conglomerate" (as a grouping of companies with parent / subsidiary relationship) instead of "consortium" (an association of independent organizations).

Author: That's a good point, thanks! I'll make a change.
